Right now we interact with computers in
a very unnatural sort of 2D way and we
try to create these 3D objects using a
variety of 2D tools and it it just it
doesn't feel natural doesn't feel normal
the way you should do things. So we
started playing around with the idea and
using a few of the things that are
available out there such as the Leap
Motion and Seaman's NX which is what we
used to design the rocket and we wrote
some code to kind of integrate the two
and we started off with what you see uh
here which is a wireframe of the Merlin
rocket engine and and what I can do is I
can I can go and grab it and I can
rotate it
in multiple dimensions.
And then what I can do is I can put
another hand in there
and I can zoom
or I can zoom in and out on the on the
wireframe. And then I can also translate
it. So I can move it around the screen
and then zoom and translate.
And this is what we we started off with
a few months ago.
And then you can you can also spin it
and then catch it. So this is kind of
fun a fun way to interface with what is
really a very complex model.
Now, we'll go to go from this to what
we're able to advance to a few weeks
after the wireframe, which is to to
actually use a a full 3D uh CAD model of
the engine.
So here what you're seeing is the actual
interaction with the CAD software
manipulating the real 3D model of the
Merlin engine just using hand gestures.
If you can just go in there and do what
you need to do just understanding the
fundamentals of how the thing should
work as opposed to figure out how to
make the computer make it work then you
can you can achieve a lot more in a lot
shorter period of time. So then we went
to a a 3D projection. We started off
with the kind of 3D projection that
you're familiar with in the movies where
you use 3D glasses.
We also did a freestanding glass
projection which is what the sort of
technology that was used in the Iron Man
movies.
And then finally, we used the the Oculus
Rift, which is immersive virtual reality
that actually tracks your head position
and you really are moving around the
object. It feels like it's right there
in front of you.
Now, let's use this for an actual
component on the rocket, which is a
cryogenic valve housing. You can really
apply your intuition and take something
from your mind to a physical object with
far greater ease than we currently do.
Now that we've gotten it, the object out
of our head and into the computer, how
do we get it out of the computer and
into reality? So, we're actually going
to print this with a 3D laser metal
printer. So the way that the 3D printer
works is it lays down fine particles of
either titanium or incanel and then it
goes over it with a laser and melts that
those tiny particles onto the prior
layer. So it builds it up like just
layer by layer.
So I I believe we're on the verge of a
major breakthrough in design and
manufacturing in being able to take an
the concept of something from your mind,
translate that into a 3D object really
intuitively uh on the computer and then
take that but virtual 3D object and be
able to make it real just by printing
it. So it's going to revolutionize
design and manufacturing in the 21st
century.